# Python Strings

## Introduction to Strings

Words and sentences are fundamental to how we communicate, so it follows that we’d want our computers to be able to work with words and sentences as well.

The way we store something like a word, a sentence, or even a whole paragraph is as a string. 

A **string is a sequence of characters** contained within a pair of 'single quotes' or "double quotes".   
A string can be any length and can contain any letters, numbers, symbols, and spaces.

learn how to 

- slice strings
- select specific characters from strings
- search strings for characters
- iterate through strings
- use strings in conditional statements


### Exercise Instructions

1. Save your favorite word as a string to the variable favorite_word.
2. Print favorite_word.

```py
favorite_word = "hi"
print(favorite_word)
```

**String are all Lists** (of characters).

Like any other list, **each character in a string has an index**.     
Consider the string:

```py
favorite_fruit = "blueberry"
```

We can **select specific letters from this string using the index**. Let’s look at the first letter of the string.

```py
print(favorite_fruit[1])

# Output: l
```

Whoops, is that the first letter you expected? Notice that the letter at index 1 of "blueberry" isn’t b, it’s l. This is because the indices of a string start at 0. b is located at the zero index and we could select it using:

```py
print(favorite_fruit[0])
# Output: b
```

:pushpin: It’s important to note that **indices of strings must be integers**. If we were to try to select a non-integer index we would get a TypeError.

For example:

```py
print(favorite_fruit[1.5])
```

This would result in:

```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "script.py", line 3, in <module>
    print(favorite_fruit[1.5])
TypeError: string indices must be integers
```

### Exercise Instructions

1. One of the most common things that are represented by strings is names.  
Save your name as a string to the variable my_name.

2. Select the first letter of the variable my_name and save it to first_initial.

```py
my_name = "jo"
first_initial = my_name[0]
```
---

### Cut Me a **Slice of String**

Not only can we select a single character from a string, but we can also **select entire chunks of characters from a string**.  
We can do this with the following syntax:

```py
string[first_index:last_index]
```

This is called **slicing a string**.  
When we slice a string we are **creating a brand new string that starts at (and includes) the first_index and ends at (but excludes) the last_index**.

Let’s look at some examples of this. Recall our favorite fruit:

```py
favorite_fruit = "blueberry"
```

The indices of this string are shown in the diagram below.

Blueberry String

Let’s say we wanted a new string that contains the letters be. We could slice favorite_fruit as follows:

```py
print(favorite_fruit[4:6])
# Output: be
```

:memo: Notice how **the character at the first index, b, is included**, **but** the character **at the last index**, **r**, is **excluded**.     
If you look for the indices 4 and 6 in the diagram, you can see how the r is outside that range.

We can also have **open-ended selections**.     
If we **remove the first index, the slice starts at the beginning of the string** and if we **remove the second index the slice continues to the end of the string**.

```py
# start slicing at the beginning
print(favorite_fruit[:4])
# Output: blue

# continue the slice to the end  
print (favorite_fruit[4:])
# Output: berry
```

Again, notice how the b from berry is excluded from the first example and included in the second example.

### Exercise Instructions

1. You’re a programmer working for Copeland’s Corporate Company. At this company, each employee’s user name is generated by taking the first five letters of their last name.

A new employee, Rodrigo Villanueva, is starting today and you need to create his account. His `first_name` and `last_name` are stored as strings in script.py.

Create a variable `new_account` by slicing the first five letters of his `last_name`.

2. Temporary passwords for new employees are also generated from their last names.

Create a variable called `temp_password` by creating a slice out of the third through sixth letters of `last_name`. Your string should have a total of 4 characters.

```py
first_name = "Rodrigo"
last_name = "Villanueva"
new_account = last_name[:5]
temp_password = last_name[2:6]
```

---

## Concatenating Strings

We can also **concatenate, or combine, two existing strings together into a new string**.     
Consider the following two strings:

```py
fruit_prefix = "blue"
fruit_suffix = "berries"
```

We can create a new string by concatenating them together as follows:

```py
favorite_fruit = fruit_prefix + fruit_suffix
 
print(favorite_fruit)
# Output: blueberries
```

:memo: Notice that there are no spaces added here. We have to manually add in the spaces when concatenating strings if we want to include them.

```py
fruit_sentence = "My favorite fruit is" + favorite_fruit
 
print(fruit_sentence)
# Output: My favorite fruit isblueberries
 
fruit_sentence = "My favorite fruit is " + favorite_fruit
 
print(fruit_sentence)
# Output: My favorite fruit is blueberries
```

It’s subtle, but notice that in the first example, there is no space between “is” and “blueberries”.

### Exercise Instructions

1. Copeland’s Corporate Company has realized that their policy of using the first five letters of an employee’s last name as a user name isn’t ideal when they have multiple employees with the same last name.

Write a function called `account_generator()` that takes two inputs, `first_name` and `last_name` and concatenates the first three letters of each and then returns the new account name.

2. Test your function on the `first_name` and `last_name` provided in script.py and save it to the variable `new_account`.

```py
first_name = "Julie"
last_name = "Blevins"

def account_generator(first_name, last_name):
  account_name = first_name[:3] + last_name[:3]
  return account_name

new_account = account_generator(first_name, last_name)
```

---

### More and More String Slicing (How Long is that String?)

Python comes with some **built-in functions** for working with strings. One of the most commonly used of these functions is `len()`.  
**len() returns the number of characters in a string**:

```py
favorite_fruit = "blueberry"
length = len(favorite_fruit)
print(length)
# Output: 9

# If you are taking the length of a sentence the spaces are counted as well.

fruit_sentence = "I love blueberries"
print(len(fruit_sentence))
# Output: 18
```

`len()` comes in handy when we are trying to **select characters from the end of a string**.  
What is the index of the last character,"y", of favorite_fruit from above? You can try to run the following code:

```py
last_char = favorite_fruit[len(favorite_fruit)]
print(last_char)

# This will result in:

IndexError: string index out of range
```

Why does this generate an *IndexError*?     
Because **the indices start at 0**, so **the final character** in `favorite_fruit` has an **index of 8**. `len(favorite_fruit)` **returns 9** and, **because there is no value at that index**, an *IndexError* occurs.

Instead, the **last character in a string has an index** that is **len(string_name) - 1**.

```py
last_char = favorite_fruit[len(favorite_fruit)-1]
print(last_char)
# Output: y
```

You could also **slice the last several characters of a string using len()**:

```py
length = len(favorite_fruit)
last_chars = favorite_fruit[length-4:]
print(last_chars)
# Output: erry
```

Using a len() statement as the starting index and omitting the final index lets you slice n characters from the end of a string, where n is the amount you subtract from len().

### Exercise Instructions

1. Copeland’s Corporate Company also wants to update how they generate temporary passwords for new employees.   
Write a function called password_generator() that takes two inputs, `first_name` and l`ast_name`, and then concatenates the last three letters of each and returns them as a string.

2. Test your function on the provided `first_name` and l`ast_name` and save it to the variable `temp_password`.

```py
first_name = "Reiko"
last_name = "Matsuki"
def password_generator(first_name, last_name):
  last_three_letters = first_name[len(first_name)-3:] + last_name[len(last_name)-3:]
  return last_three_letters

temp_password = password_generator(first_name, last_name)
```

---

## Negative Indices

In the previous exercise, we used len() to get a slice of characters at the end of a string.

There’s a much easier way to do this — we can use negative indices!     
**Negative indices count backward from the end of the string**, so **`string_name[-1]`** is **the last character of the string**, **`string_name[-2]`** is **the second last character of the string**, etc.

Here are some examples:

```py
favorite_fruit = 'blueberry'
print(favorite_fruit[-1])
# => 'y'
 
print(favorite_fruit[-2])
# => 'r'
 
print(favorite_fruit[-3:])
# => 'rry'
```

:memo: Notice that we are able to slice the last three characters of ‘blueberry’ by having a starting index of -3 and omitting a final index.

### Exercise Instructions

1. Use negative indices to find the second to last character in company_motto. Save this to the variable second_to_last.

2. Use negative indices to create a slice of the last 4 characters in company_motto. Save this to the variable final_word.

```py
company_motto = "Copeland's Corporate Company helps you capably cope with the constant cacophony of daily life"
second_to_last = company_motto[-2]
final_word = company_motto[-4:]
```

<br>

## Strings are Immutable

So far, we’ve been **selecting characters from strings, slicing strings, and concatenating strings**. Each time we perform one of these operations we are **creating an entirely new string**.

This is because **strings are immutable**. This means that we **cannot change a string once it is created**.  
We can use it to create other strings, but we cannot change the string itself. This property, generally, is known as mutability.   

:bulb: **Data types that are mutable can be changed, and data types, like strings, that are immutable cannot be changed.**

### Exercise Instructions

1. The most recent hire at Copeland’s Corporate Company is a fellow named Rob Daily. Unfortunately, Human Resources seem to have made a bit of a typo and sent over the wrong first_name.

**Try changing the first character** of first_name by running

```py
first_name[0] = "R"
```

2. Strings are immutable, so we can’t change an individual character. Okay that’s no problem—we can still fix this!   
Delete the code you just wrote for step 1.

Then, **concatenate the string "R" with a slice of first_name that includes everything but the first character, "B"**, and save it to a new string fixed_first_name.

```py
first_name = "Bob"
last_name = "Daily"
# first_name[0] = "R" # error (strings are immutable)
fixed_first_name = "R" + first_name[1:]
```

---

## Escape Characters

Occasionally when working with strings, you’ll find that you want to include characters that already have a special meaning in python. For example let’s say I create the string

:x:

```py
favorite_fruit_conversation = "He said, "blueberries are my favorite!""
```

We’ll have accidentally ended the string before we wanted to by including the **`"`** character. The way we can do this is by introducing escape characters. By adding a backslash in front of the special character we want to escape, **`\"`**, we can include it in a string.

:white_check_mark:

```py
favorite_fruit_conversation = "He said, \"blueberries are my favorite!\""
```

Now it works!

<br>

### Exercise Instructions

1. When Rob Daily (remember him? From the last exercise?) set up his account he set his password to be

```py
theycallme"crazy"91
```
His password was causing some errors in the system because of the " marks. Rewrite his password using escape characters and save it to the variable password.

```py
password = "theycallme\"crazy\"91"
```

<br>

---

## Iterating through Strings

Because **strings are lists**, that means we **can iterate through a string** using **`for` or `while` loops**. This opens up a whole range of possibilities of ways we can **manipulate and analyze strings**.     
Let’s take a look at an example.

```py
def print_each_letter(word):
  for letter in word:
    print(letter)
```

This code will iterate through each letter in a given word and will print it to the terminal.

```py
favorite_color = "blue"
print_each_letter(favorite_color)
# => 'b'
# => 'l'
# => 'u'
# => 'e'
```

Let’s try a couple of problems where we need to iterate through a string.

### Exercise Instructions

1. Let’s replicate a function you are already familiar with, len().

Write a new function called get_length() that takes a string as an input and returns the number of characters in that string. Do this by iterating through the string, don’t cheat and use len()!

```py
def get_length(string):
  return len(string)
```


## Strings and Conditionals (Part One)

Now that we are iterating through strings, we can really explore the potential of strings.    
When we iterate through a string we do something with each character. By including conditional statements inside of these iterations, we can start to do some really cool stuff.

Take a look at the following code:

```py
favorite_fruit = "blueberry"
counter = 0
for character in favorite_fruit:
  if character == "b":
    counter = counter + 1
print(counter)
```

This code will **count the number of `bs` in the string `“blueberry”`**

First, we define our string, `favorite_fruit`, and a variable called `counter`, which we set equal to zero.     
Then the `for loo`p will iterate through each character in `favorite_fruit` and compare it to the letter b.

Each time a character equals b the code will increase the variable counter by one.  
Then, once all characters have been checked, the code will print the counter, telling us how many `bs` were in `“blueberry”`.   
This is a great example of how iterating through a string can be used to solve a specific application, in this case counting a certain letter in a word.

### Exercise Instructions

1. Write a function called letter_check that takes two inputs, word and letter.   
This function should return True if the word contains the letter and False if it does not.

```py
def letter_check(word, letter):
  if letter in word:
    return True
  else:
    return False

letter_check("strawberry", "a")
```



## Strings and Conditionals (Part Two)

There’s an even easier way than iterating through the entire string to determine if a character is in a string. We can do this type of check more efficiently using `in`. 

**`in` checks if one string is part of another string**.

Here is what the syntax of in looks like:

```
letter in word
```

Here, letter in word is a boolean expression that is `True` if the string letter is in the string word.   
Here are some examples:

```py
print("e" in "blueberry")
# => True

print("a" in "blueberry")
# => False
```

In fact, this method is more powerful than the function you wrote in the last exercise because it not only works with letters, but with entire strings as well.

```py
print("blue" in "blueberry")
# => True

print("blue" in "strawberry")
# => False
```

### Exercise Instructions

1. Write a function called contains that takes two arguments, big_string and little_string and returns True if big_string contains little_string.

For example contains("watermelon", "melon") should return True and contains("watermelon", "berry") should return False.

2. Write a function called common_letters that takes two arguments, string_one and string_two and then returns a list with all of the letters they have in common.

The letters in the returned list should be unique. 

```py
common_letters("banana", "cream")

should return ['a'].

def contains(big_string, little_string):
  if little_string in big_string:
    return True
  else:
    return False

contains("watermelon", "melon")


def common_letters(string_one, string_two):
  common = []
  for letter in string_one:
    if (letter in string_two) and not (letter in common):
      common.append(letter)
  return common
```

---

<br>

## Review

I hope you are now starting to see the potential of strings and how they can be used to solve a huge variety of problems.

In this lesson you learned:

- A string is a list of characters.
- A character can be selected from a string using its index string_name[index]. These indices start at 0.
- A ‘slice’ can be selected from a string. These can be between two indices or can be open-ended, selecting all of the string from a point.
- Strings can be concatenated to make larger strings.
- len() can be used to determine the number of characters in a string.
- Strings can be iterated through using for loops.
- Iterating through strings opens up a huge potential for applications, especially when combined with conditional statements.

<br>

Let’s put your new skills to the test!

### Test Instructions

1. Copeland’s Corporate Company has finalized what they want their username and temporary password creation to be and have enlisted your help, once again, to build the function to generate them. In this exercise, you will create two functions, username_generator and password_generator.

Let’s start with username_generator. Create a function called username_generator take two inputs, first_name and last_name and returns a username. The username should be a slice of the first three letters of their first name and the first four letters of their last name. If their first name is less than three letters or their last name is less than four letters it should use their entire names.

For example, if the employee’s name is Abe Simpson the function should generate the username AbeSimp.

2. Great work! Now for the temporary password, they want the function to take the input user name and shift all of the letters by one to the right, so the last letter of the username ends up as the first letter and so forth. For example, if the username is AbeSimp, then the temporary password generated should be pAbeSim.

Start by defining the function password_generator so that it takes one input, username and in it define an empty string named password.

3. Inside password_generator create a for loop that iterates through the indices username by going from 0 to len(username).

To shift the letters right, at each letter the for loop should add the previous letter to the string password.

```py
def username_generator(first_name, last_name):
    if len(first_name) < 3:
        user_name = first_name
    else:
        user_name = first_name[0:3]
    if len(last_name) < 4:
        user_name += last_name
    else:
        user_name += last_name[0:4]
    return user_name
  
    
def password_generator(user_name):
    password = ""
    for i in range(0, len(user_name)):
    	password += username[-1] +  username[i:-1]
    	return password
```

---

## String Methods

### Introduction

Do you have a **gigantic string** that you need to **parse for information**?   
Do you need to **sanitize a users input** to work in a function?  
Do you need to be able to **generate outputs with variable values**?  

All of these things can be accomplished with string methods!

Python comes with **built-in string methods** that gives you the power to perform complicated tasks on strings very quickly and efficiently.  
  
These string methods allow you to 
- change the case of a string, 
- split a string into many smaller strings, 
- join many small strings together into a larger string, and 
- allow you to neatly combine changing variables with string outputs.

In the previous lesson, you worked with len(), which was a function that determined the number of characters in a string. This, while similar, was NOT a string method.   
String methods all have the same **syntax**:

```py
string_name.string_method(arguments)
```

Unlike len(), which is called with a string as it’s argument, a **string method is called at the end of a string and each one has its own method specific arguments**.

### Instructions

The diagram shows all of the string methods you can expect to learn in this lesson. Take a quick look at them and then let’s get started!

## Formatting Methods

There are three string methods that can change the casing of a string. These are `.lower()`, .`upper()`, and `.title()`.

    .lower() returns the string with all lowercase characters.
    .upper() returns the string with all uppercase characters.
    .title() returns the string in title case, which means the first letter of each word is capitalized.

Here’s an example of `.lower()` in action:

```py
favorite_song = 'SmOoTH'
favorite_song_lowercase = favorite_song.lower()
print(favorite_song_lowercase)
# => 'smooth'
```

Every character was changed to lowercase!   
:pushpin: It’s important to remember that **string methods can only create new strings**, **they do not change the original string**.

```py
print(favorite_song)
# => 'SmOoTH'
```

See, it’s still the same! These string methods are great for sanitizing user input and standardizing the formatting of your strings.

### Exercise Instructions

1. You’re a programmer working for an organization that is trying to digitize and store poetry called Preserve the Verse.   
You’ve been given two strings, the title of a poem and it’s author, and have been asked to reformat them slightly to fit the conventions of the organization’s database.    
Make poem_title have title case and save it to poem_title_fixed.

2. Print poem_title and poem_title_fixed.   
How did the string change?

3. The organization’s database also needs the author’s name to be uppercase only.   
Make poem_author uppercase and save it to poem_author_fixed.

4. Print poem_author and poem_author_fixed.   
Again, how did the string change?

```py
poem_title = "spring storm"
poem_author = "William Carlos Williams"
poem_title_fixed = poem_title.title()
print(poem_title )
print(poem_title_fixed)
poem_author_fixed = poem_author.upper()
print(poem_author)
print(poem_author_fixed)
```

---

## Splitting Strings

`.upper()`, `.lower()`, and `.title()` all are **performed on an existing string and produce a string in return**.  
Let’s take a look at a string method that returns a different object entirely!

**`.split()` is performed on a string**, takes one argument, and returns a list of substrings found between the given argument (which in the case of .**split() is known as the delimiter**). 

The following syntax should be used:

```
string_name.split(delimiter)
```

If you do not provide an argument for `.split()` it will default to splitting at spaces.

For example, consider the following strings:

```py
man_its_a_hot_one = "Like seven inches from the midday sun"
print(man_its_a_hot_one.split())
# => ['Like', 'seven', 'inches', 'from', 'the', 'midday', 'sun']
```

**`.split()` returned a list with each word in the string**. 

:memo: Important to note: i**f we run .split() on a string with no spaces, we will get the same string in return**.

### Exercise Instructions

1. In the code editor is a string of the first line of the poem Spring Storm by William Carlos Williams.  
Use .split() to create a list called line_one_words that contains each word in this line of poetry.

```py
line_one = "The sky has given over"
line_one_words = line_one.split()
```

## Splitting Strings II

If we provide an argument for .split() we can dictate the character we want our string to be split on. This argument should be provided as a string itself.

Consider the following example:

```py
greatest_guitarist = "santana"
print(greatest_guitarist.split('n'))
# => ['sa', 'ta', 'a']
```

We provided 'n' as the argument for .split() so our string “santana” got split at each 'n' character into a list of three strings.

What do you think happens if we split the same string at 'a'?

```py
print(greatest_guitarist.split('a'))
# => ['s', 'nt', 'n', ' ']
```

:pushpin: Notice that there is an unexpected extra `'' `string in this list. When you split a string on a character that it also ends with, you’ll end up with an empty string at the end of the list.

You can use any string as the argument for .split(), making it a versatile and powerful tool.

### Exercise Instructions

1. Your boss at the Poetry organization sent over a bunch of author names that he wants you to prepare for importing into the database. Annoyingly, he sent them over as a long string with the names separated by commas.  
Using .split() and the provided string, create a list called author_names containing each individual author name as it’s own string.

2. Great work, but now it turns out they didn’t want poet’s first names (why didn’t they just say that the first time!?)  
Create another list called author_last_names that only contains the last names of the poets in the provided string.

```py
authors = "Audre Lorde,Gabriela Mistral,Jean Toomer,An Qi,Walt Whitman,Shel Silverstein,Carmen Boullosa,Kamala Suraiyya,Langston Hughes,Adrienne Rich,Nikki Giovanni"
author_names = authors.split(",")
print(author_names)
author_last_names = []
for name in author_names:
  author_last_names.append(name.split()[-1])
  
print(author_last_names)
```


## Splitting Strings III

We can also split strings using **escape sequences**.   
Escape sequences are used to indicate that we want to split by something in a string that is not necessarily a character. 

The two escape sequences we will cover here are

    \n Newline
    \t Horizontal Tab

Newline or \n will allow us to split a multi-line string by line breaks and \t will allow us to split a string by tabs. \t is particularly useful when dealing with certain datasets because it is not uncommon for data points to be separated by tabs.

Let’s take a look at an example of splitting by an escape sequence:

```py
smooth_chorus = \
"""And if you said, "This life ain't good enough."
I would give my world to lift you up
I could change my life to better suit your mood
Because you're so smooth"""
 
chorus_lines = smooth_chorus.split('\n')
 
print(chorus_lines)
```

This code is splitting the **multi-line string at the newlines** (\n) which exist at the end of each line and saving it to a new list called chorus_lines.  
Then it prints chorus_lines which will produce the output

```
['And if you said, "This life ain\'t good enough."', 'I would give my world to lift you up', 'I could change my life to better suit your mood', "Because you're so smooth"]
```

The new list contains each line of the original string as it’s own smaller string.  
:memo: Also, notice that Python automatically escaped the ' character when it created the new list.


### Exercise Instructions

1. The organization has sent you over the full text for William Carlos Williams poem Spring Storm. They want you to break the poem up into its individual lines.  
Create a list called spring_storm_lines that contains a string for each line of Spring Storm.

```py
spring_storm_text = \
"""The sky has given over 
its bitterness. 
Out of the dark change 
all day long 
rain falls and falls 
as if it would never end. 
Still the snow keeps 
its hold on the ground. 
But water, water 
from a thousand runnels! 
It collects swiftly, 
dappled with black 
cuts a way for itself 
through green ice in the gutters. 
Drop after drop it falls 
from the withered grass-stems 
of the overhanging embankment."""

spring_storm_lines = spring_storm_text.split('\n')

```

## Joining Strings

Now that you’ve learned to break strings apart using .split(), let’s learn to put them back together using .join(). 

**`.join()`** is essentially the opposite of .split(), **it joins a list of strings together with a given delimiter**. 

The syntax of .join() is:

```py
'delimiter'.join(list_you_want_to_join)
```

Now this may seem a little weird, because with .split() the argument was the delimiter, but now the argument is the list.   
This is because join is still a string method, which means it has to act on a string.   
The string .join() acts on is the delimiter you want to join with, therefore the list you want to join has to be the argument.

This can be a bit confusing, so let’s take a look at an example.

```py
my_munequita = ['My', 'Spanish', 'Harlem', 'Mona', 'Lisa']
print(' '.join(my_munequita))
# => 'My Spanish Harlem Mona Lisa'
```

We take the list of strings, *my_munequita*, and we joined it together with our delimiter, `' '`, which is a space.   
The space is important if you are trying to build a sentence from words, otherwise, we would have ended up with:

```py
print(''.join(my_munequita))
# => 'MySpanishHarlemMonaLisa'
```

### Exercise Instructions

1. You’ve been provided with a list of words from the first line of Jean Toomer’s poem Reapers.   
Use .join() to combine these words into a sentence and save that sentence as the string reapers_line_one.

```
reapers_line_one_words = ["Black", "reapers", "with", "the", "sound", "of", "steel", "on", "stones"]
reapers_line_one = ' '.join(reapers_line_one_words)
```
<br>

## Joining Strings II

In the last exercise, we joined together a list of words using a space as the delimiter to create a sentence. In fact, you can use any string as a delimiter to join together a list of strings. 

For example, if we have the list

```py
santana_songs = ['Oye Como Va', 'Smooth', 'Black Magic Woman', 'Samba Pa Ti', 'Maria Maria']
``` 

We could join this list together with ANY string. One often used string is a comma , because then we can create a string of comma separated variables, or CSV.

```py
santana_songs_csv = ','.join(santana_songs)
print(santana_songs_csv)
# => 'Oye Como Va,Smooth,Black Magic Woman,Samba Pa Ti,Maria Maria'
```

 :green_book: You’ll often find data stored in CSVs because it is an efficient, simple file type used by popular programs like Excel or Google Spreadsheets.

You can also join using escape sequences as the delimiter. 

Consider the following example:

```py
smooth_fifth_verse_lines = ['Well I\'m from the barrio', 'You hear my rhythm on your radio', 'You feel the turning of the world so soft and slow', 'Turning you \'round and \'round']
 
smooth_fifth_verse = '\n'.join(smooth_fifth_verse_lines)
 
print(smooth_fifth_verse)
```

This code is taking the list of strings and joining them using a newline \n as the delimiter.       
Then it prints the result and produces the output:

```
Well I'm from the barrio
You hear my rhythm on your radio
You feel the turning of the world so soft and slow
Turning you 'round and 'round
```

### Exercise Instructions

1. You’ve been given a list, winter_trees_lines, that contains all the lines to William Carlos Williams poem, Winter Trees. You’ve been asked to join together the strings in the list together into a single string that can be used to display the full poem. Name this string winter_trees_full.   
Print your result to the terminal. Make sure that each line of the poem appears on a new line in your string.

```py
winter_trees_lines = ['All the complicated details', 'of the attiring and', 'the disattiring are completed!', 'A liquid moon', 'moves gently among', 'the long branches.', 'Thus having prepared their buds', 'against a sure winter', 'the wise trees', 'stand sleeping in the cold.']

winter_trees_full = '\n'.join(winter_trees_lines)

print(winter_trees_full)
```

<br>

**`.strip()`**

When working with strings that come from real data, you will often find that the strings aren’t super clean. You’ll find lots of extra whitespace, unnecessary linebreaks, and rogue tabs.

Python provides a great method for **cleaning strings: `.strip()`** .  
**Stripping a string removes all whitespace characters from the beginning and end.**

Consider the following example:

```py
featuring = "           rob thomas                 "
print(featuring.strip())
# => 'rob thomas'
```

All the whitespace on either side of the string has been stripped, but the whitespace in the middle has been preserved.

You can also use .strip() with a character argument, which will strip that character from either end of the string.

```py
featuring = "!!!rob thomas       !!!!!"
print(featuring.strip('!'))
# => 'rob thomas       '
```

By including the argument '!' we are able to strip all of the ! characters from either side of the string. Notice that now that we’ve included an argument we are no longer stripping whitespace, we are ONLY stripping the argument.

<br>

### Exercise Instructions

1. They sent over another list containing all the lines to the Audre Lorde poem, Love, Maybe. They want you to join together all of the lines into a single string that can be used to display the poem again, but this time, you’ve noticed that the list contains a ton of unnecessary whitespace that doesn’t appear in the actual poem.   
First, use .strip() on each line in the list to remove the unnecessary whitespace and save it as a new list love_maybe_lines_stripped.

2. .join() the lines in love_maybe_lines_stripped together into one large multi-line string, love_maybe_full, that can be printed to display the poem.    
Each line of the poem should show up on its own line.

3. Print love_maybe_full.

```py
love_maybe_lines = ['Always    ', '     in the middle of our bloodiest battles  ', 'you lay down your arms', '           like flowering mines    ','\n' ,'   to conquer me home.    ']

love_maybe_lines_stripped = []

for line in love_maybe_lines:
  love_maybe_lines_stripped.append(line.strip())
  
love_maybe_full = '\n'.join(love_maybe_lines_stripped)

print(love_maybe_full)
```

---

<br>

## Replace

The next string method we will cover is `.replace()`. 

Replace takes two arguments and replaces all instances of the first argument in a string with the second argument. 

The syntax is as follows

```
string_name.replace(character_being_replaced, new_character)
```

Great! Let’s put it in context and look at an example.

```py
with_spaces = "You got the kind of loving that can be so smooth"
with_underscores = with_spaces.replace(' ', '_')
print(with_underscores)
# 'You_got_the_kind_of_loving_that_can_be_so_smooth'
```

Here we used .replace() to change every instance of a space in the string above to be an underscore instead.

### Exrcise Instructions

1. The poetry organization has sent over the bio for Jean Toomer as it currently exists on their site. Notice that there was a mistake with his last name and all instances of Toomer are lacking one o.    
Use .replace() to change all instances of Tomer in the bio to Toomer. Save the updated bio to the string toomer_bio_fixed.

```py
toomer_bio = \
"""
Nathan Pinchback Tomer, who adopted the name Jean Tomer early in his literary career, was born in Washington, D.C. in 1894. Jean is the son of Nathan Tomer was a mixed-race freedman, born into slavery in 1839 in Chatham County, North Carolina. Jean Tomer is most well known for his first book Cane, which vividly portrays the life of African-Americans in southern farmlands.
"""

toomer_bio_fixed = toomer_bio.replace("Tomer", "Toomer")
```

---

**`.find()`**

Another interesting string method is .find(). 

.find() takes a string as an argument and searching the string it was run on for that string.     
It then returns the first index value where that string is located.

Here’s an example:

```py
print('smooth'.find('t'))
# => '4'
```

We searched the string 'smooth' for the string 't' and found that it was at the fourth index spot, so .find() returned 4.

You can also search for larger strings, and .find() will return the index value of the first character of that string.

```py
print("smooth".find('oo'))
# => '2'
```

 :pushpin: Notice here that 2 is the index of the first o.

### Exercise Instructions

1. In the code editor is the first line of Gabriela Mistral’s poem God Wills It.    
At what index place does the word “disown” appear? Save that index place to the variable disown_placement.

```py
god_wills_it_line_one = "The very earth will disown you"

disown_placement = god_wills_it_line_one.find("disown")
```

---

**`.format()`**

Python also provides a handy string method for including variables in strings. This method is .format(). 

.format() takes variables as an argument and includes them in the string that it is run on.   
You include {} marks as placeholders for where those variables will be imported.

Consider the following function:

```py
def favorite_song_statement(song, artist):
  return "My favorite song is {} by {}.".format(song, artist)
```

The function favorite_song_statement takes two arguments, song and artist, then returns a string that includes both of the arguments and prints a sentence. 

:memo: Note: .format() can take as many arguments as there are {} in the string it is run on, which in this case is two.

Here’s an example of the function being run:

```py
print(favorite_song_statement("Smooth", "Santana"))
# => "My favorite song is Smooth by Santana"
```

Now you may be asking yourself, I could have written this function using string concatenation instead of .format(), why is this method better? The answer is legibility and reusability. It is much easier to picture the end result .format() than it is to picture the end result of string concatenation and legibility is everything. You can also reuse the same base string with different variables, allowing you to cut down on unnecessary, hard to interpret code.

### Exercise Instructions

1. Write a function called poem_title_card that takes two inputs: the first input should be title and the second poet. The function should use .format() to return the following string:

```py
 The poem "[TITLE]" is written by [POET].

For example, if the function is given the inputs

poem_title_card("I Hear America Singing", "Walt Whitman")

It should return the string

The poem "I Hear America Singing" is written by Walt Whitman.

def poem_title_card(title , poet):
  return "The poem \"{}\" is written by {}.".format(title, poet)
```

<br>

**`.format()`** II

.format() can be made even more legible for other people reading your code by including keywords. Previously with .format(), you had to make sure that your variables appeared as arguments in the same order that you wanted them to appear in the string, which just added unnecessary complications when writing code.

By including keywords in the string and in the arguments, you can remove that ambiguity. 

Let’s look at an example.

```py
def favorite_song_statement(song, artist):
    return "My favorite song is {song} by {artist}.".format(song=song, artist=artist)
```

Now it is clear to anyone reading the string what it supposed to return, they don’t even need to look at the arguments of .format() in order to get a clear understanding of what is supposed to happen. You can even reverse the order of artist and song in the code above and it will work the same way. This makes writing AND reading the code much easier.

### Exercise Instructions

1. The function poem_description is supposed to use .format() to print out some quick information about a poem, but it seems to be causing some errors currently.   
Fix the function by using keywords in the .format() method.

2. Run poem_description with the following arguments and save the results to the variable my_beard_description:

```py
author = "Shel Silverstein"
title = "My Beard"
original_work = "Where the Sidewalk Ends"
publishing_date = "1974"


def poem_description(publishing_date, author, title, original_work):
  poem_desc = "The poem {title} by {author} was originally published in {original_work} in {publishing_date}.".format(publishing_date = publishing_date, author = author, title = title, original_work = original_work)
  return poem_desc

author = "Shel Silverstein"
title = "My Beard"
original_work = "Where the Sidewalk Ends"
publishing_date = "1974"

my_beard_description = poem_description(publishing_date, author, title, original_work)

print(my_beard_description)
```

---

## Review

This lesson has shown you the vast variety of string methods and their power.   
Whatever the problem you are trying to solve, if you are working with strings then string methods are likely going to be part of the solution.

Over this lesson you’ve learned:

    .upper(), .title(), and .lower() adjust the casing of your string.
    .split() takes a string and creates a list of substrings.
    .join() takes a list of strings and creates a string.
    .strip() cleans off whitespace, or other noise from the beginning and end of a string.
    .replace() replaces all instances of a character/string in a string with another character/string.
    .find() searches a string for a character/string and returns the index value that character/string is found at.
    .format() allows you to interpolate a string with variables.

Well I’ve been stringing you along for long enough, let’s get some more practice in!

### Exercise Instructions

1. Preserve the Verse has one final task for you. They have delivered you a string that contains a list of poems, titled highlighted_poems, they want to highlight on the site, but they need your help to parse the string into something that can display the name, title, and publication date of the highlighted poems on the site.   
First, start by printing highlighted_poems to the terminal and see how it displays.

2. The information for each poem is separated by commas, and within this information is the title of the poem, the author, and the date of publication.   
Start by splitting highlighted_poems at the commas and saving it to highlighted_poems_list.

3. Print highlighted_poems_list, how does the structure of the data look now?

4. Notice that there is inconsistent whitespace in highlighted_poems_list. Let’s clean that up.   
Start by creating a new empty list, highlighted_poems_stripped.

Then, iterate through highlighted_poems_list using a for loop and for each poem strip away the whitespace and append it to your new list, highlighted_poems_stripped.

5. Print highlighted_poems_stripped.    
Looks good! All the whitespace is cleaned up.

6. Next we want to break up all the information for each poem into it’s own list, so we end up with a list of lists.  
Create a new empty list called highlighted_poems_details.

7. Iterate through highlighted_poems_stripped and split each string around the : characters and append the new lists into highlighted_poems_details.

8. Now we want to separate out all of the titles, the poets, and the publication dates into their own lists.    
Create three new empty lists, titles, poets, and dates.

9. Iterate through highlighted_poems_details and for each list in the list append the appropriate elements into the lists titles, poets, and dates.   
For example, for the poem The Shadow (1915) by William Carlos Williams your code should be adding "The Shadow" to titles, "William Carlos Williams" to poets, and "1915" to dates.

10. Finally, write a for loop that uses .format() to print out the following string for each poem:  
The poem TITLE was published by POET in DATE.

```py
highlighted_poems = "Afterimages:Audre Lorde:1997,  The Shadow:William Carlos Williams:1915, Ecstasy:Gabriela Mistral:1925,   Georgia Dusk:Jean Toomer:1923,   Parting Before Daybreak:An Qi:2014, The Untold Want:Walt Whitman:1871, Mr. Grumpledump's Song:Shel Silverstein:2004, Angel Sound Mexico City:Carmen Boullosa:2013, In Love:Kamala Suraiyya:1965, Dream Variations:Langston Hughes:1994, Dreamwood:Adrienne Rich:1987"

print(highlighted_poems)

highlighted_poems_list = highlighted_poems.split(",")

print(highlighted_poems_list)

highlighted_poems_stripped = []
for poem in highlighted_poems_list:
  highlighted_poems_stripped.append(poem.strip())

print(highlighted_poems_stripped)

highlighted_poems_details = []
for string in highlighted_poems_stripped:
  highlighted_poems_details.append(string.split(":"))

titles = []
poets = []
dates = []

for poem in highlighted_poems_details:
  titles.append(poem[0])
  poets.append(poem[1])
  dates.append(poem[2])
  
for i in range(0,len(highlighted_poems_details)):
    print('The poem {} was published by {} in {}'.format(titles[i], poets[i], dates[i]))
```

<br>

---

### Challenge Instructions

### Thread Shed

You’ve recently been hired as a cashier at the local sewing hobby shop, Thread Shed. Some of your daily responsibilities involve tallying the number of sales during the day, calculating the total amount of money made, and keeping track of the names of the customers.

Unfortunately, the Thread Shed has an extremely outdated register system and stores all of the transaction information in one huge unwieldy string called daily_sales.

All day, for each transaction, the name of the customer, amount spent, types of thread purchased, and the date of sale is all recorded in this same string. Your task is to use your Python skills to iterate through this string and clean up each transaction and store all the information in easier-to-access lists.

If you get stuck during this project or would like to see an experienced developer work through it, click “Get Help“ to see a project walkthrough video.

Tasks: 0/22 Complete

Break up `daily_sales` in easy to understand lists `customers`, `sales`, and `threads_sold`.

1. First, take a minute to inspect the string daily_sales in the code editor. 
How is each transaction stored? How is each piece of data within the transaction stored?  
Start thinking about how we can split up this string into its individual pieces of data.

2. It looks like each transaction is separated from the next transaction by a ,, and then each piece of data within a transaction is separated by the artifact `;,;`.   
If we want to split up daily_sales into a list of individual transactions, we are going to want to split by ,, but first, we need to replace the artifact `;,;` to something without a comma, so we don’t split any transactions themselves.

Replace all the instances of `;,;` in daily_sales with some other character and save the result to daily_sales_replaced.

3. Now we can split the string into a list of each individual transaction.    
Split daily_sales_replaced around commas and save it to a new list daily_transactions.

4. Print daily_transactions.   
How does it look?

5. Our next step is to split each individual transaction into a list of its data points.    
First, define an empty list daily_transactions_split

6. Now, iterate through daily_transactions (remember, this is a list of strings currently), and for each transaction, split the string around whatever character you replaced the `;,;` artifacts with in Step 2.   
Append each of these split strings (which are lists now) to our new list daily_transactions_split.

7. Print daily_transactions_split.    
How’s it looking?

8. It looks like each data item has inconsistent whitespace around it. First, define an empty list transactions_clean.    
Now, Iterate through daily_transactions_split and for each transaction iterate through the different data points and strip off any whitespace.    
Add each of these cleaned up transactions to the new list transactions_clean.

9. Print transactions_clean.  
If you performed the last step correctly, you shouldn’t see any unnecessary whitespace.

10. Create three empty lists. customers, sales, and thread_sold. We are going to collect the individual data points for each transaction in these lists.

11. Now, iterate through transactions_clean and for each transaction:
   - Append the customers name to customers.
   - Append the amount of the sale to sales.
   - Append the threads sold to thread_sold.

12. Print customers, sales, and thread_sold to make sure each list is what you are expected.  
Determine the total value of the days sales.

13. Now we want to know how much Thread Shed made in a day.   
First, define a variable called total_sales and set it equal to 0.

14. Now, consider the list sales. It is a list of strings that we want to sum. In order for us to sum these values, we will have to remove the $, and set them equal to floats.   
Iterate through sales and for each item, strip off the $, set it equal to a float, and add it to total_sales

15. Print total sales.  
How much did we make today?   
How much thread of any specific color was sold?

16. Finally, we want to determine how many of each color thread we sold today. Let’s start with a single color, and then we’ll generalize it.   
First, print out thread_sold and inspect it.

17. We see that thread_sold is a list of strings, some are single colors and some are multiple colors separated by the & character.   
The end product we want here is a list that contains an item for each color thread sold, so no strings that have multiple colors in them.   
First, define an empty list thread_sold_split.

18. Next, iterate through thread_sold. For each item, check if it is a single color or multiple colors. If it is a single color, append that color to thread_sold_split.    
If it is multiple colors, first split the string around the & character and then add each color indivudally to thread_sold_split.

19. Great, now we have a list thread_sold_split that contains an entry with the color of every thread sold today.   
Define a function called color_count that takes one argument, color. The function should iterate through thread_sold_split and count the number of times the item is equal to argument, color. Then, it should return this count.

20. Test your new function by running color_count('white').   
Your function should return 28.

21. Define a list called colors that stores all of the colored threads that Thread Shed offers:
```py
colors = ['red','yellow','green','white','black','blue','purple']
```

22. Now, using the list colors, the string method .format(), and the function color_count, iterate through thread_sold_split and print a sentence that says how many threads of each color were sold today.

```py
daily_sales = \
"""Edith Mcbride   ;,;$1.21   ;,;   white ;,; 
09/15/17   ,Herbert Tran   ;,;   $7.29;,; 
white&blue;,;   09/15/17 ,Paul Clarke ;,;$12.52 
;,;   white&blue ;,; 09/15/17 ,Lucille Caldwell   
;,;   $5.13   ;,; white   ;,; 09/15/17,
Eduardo George   ;,;$20.39;,; white&yellow 
;,;09/15/17   ,   Danny Mclaughlin;,;$30.82;,;   
purple ;,;09/15/17 ,Stacy Vargas;,; $1.85   ;,; 
purple&yellow ;,;09/15/17,   Shaun Brock;,; 
$17.98;,;purple&yellow ;,; 09/15/17 , 
Erick Harper ;,;$17.41;,; blue ;,; 09/15/17, 
Michelle Howell ;,;$28.59;,; blue;,;   09/15/17   , 
Carroll Boyd;,; $14.51;,;   purple&blue   ;,;   
09/15/17   , Teresa Carter   ;,; $19.64 ;,; 
white;,;09/15/17   ,   Jacob Kennedy ;,; $11.40   
;,; white&red   ;,; 09/15/17, Craig Chambers;,; 
$8.79 ;,; white&blue&red   ;,;09/15/17   , Peggy Bell;,; $8.65 ;,;blue   ;,; 09/15/17,   Kenneth Cunningham ;,;   $10.53;,;   green&blue   ;,; 
09/15/17   ,   Marvin Morgan;,;   $16.49;,; 
green&blue&red   ;,;   09/15/17 ,Marjorie Russell 
;,; $6.55 ;,;   green&blue&red;,;   09/15/17 ,
Israel Cummings;,;   $11.86   ;,;black;,;  
09/15/17,   June Doyle   ;,;   $22.29 ;,;  
black&yellow ;,;09/15/17 , Jaime Buchanan   ;,;   
$8.35;,;   white&black&yellow   ;,;   09/15/17,   
Rhonda Farmer;,;$2.91 ;,;   white&black&yellow   
;,;09/15/17, Darren Mckenzie ;,;$22.94;,;green 
;,;09/15/17,Rufus Malone;,;$4.70   ;,; green&yellow 
;,; 09/15/17   ,Hubert Miles;,;   $3.59   
;,;green&yellow&blue;,;   09/15/17   , Joseph Bridges  ;,;$5.66   ;,; green&yellow&purple&blue 
;,;   09/15/17 , Sergio Murphy   ;,;$17.51   ;,;   
black   ;,;   09/15/17 , Audrey Ferguson ;,; 
$5.54;,;black&blue   ;,;09/15/17 ,Edna Williams ;,; 
$17.13;,; black&blue;,;   09/15/17,   Randy Fleming;,;   $21.13 ;,;black ;,;09/15/17 ,Elisa Hart;,; $0.35   ;,; black&purple;,;   09/15/17   ,
Ernesto Hunt ;,; $13.91   ;,;   black&purple ;,;   
09/15/17,   Shannon Chavez   ;,;$19.26   ;,; 
yellow;,; 09/15/17   , Sammy Cain;,; $5.45;,;   
yellow&red ;,;09/15/17 ,   Steven Reeves ;,;$5.50   
;,;   yellow;,;   09/15/17, Ruben Jones   ;,; 
$14.56 ;,;   yellow&blue;,;09/15/17 , Essie Hansen;,;   $7.33   ;,;   yellow&blue&red
;,; 09/15/17   ,   Rene Hardy   ;,; $20.22   ;,; 
black ;,;   09/15/17 ,   Lucy Snyder   ;,; $8.67   
;,;black&red  ;,; 09/15/17 ,Dallas Obrien ;,;   
$8.31;,;   black&red ;,;   09/15/17,   Stacey Payne 
;,;   $15.70   ;,;   white&black&red ;,;09/15/17   
,   Tanya Cox   ;,;   $6.74   ;,;yellow   ;,; 
09/15/17 , Melody Moran ;,;   $30.84   
;,;yellow&black;,;   09/15/17 , Louise Becker   ;,; 
$12.31 ;,; green&yellow&black;,;   09/15/17 ,
Ryan Webster;,;$2.94 ;,; yellow ;,; 09/15/17 
,Justin Blake ;,; $22.46   ;,;white&yellow ;,;   
09/15/17,   Beverly Baldwin ;,;   $6.60;,;   
white&yellow&black ;,;09/15/17   ,   Dale Brady   
;,;   $6.27 ;,; yellow   ;,;09/15/17 ,Guadalupe Potter ;,;$21.12   ;,; yellow;,; 09/15/17   , 
Desiree Butler ;,;$2.10   ;,;white;,; 09/15/17  
,Sonja Barnett ;,; $14.22 ;,;white&black;,;   
09/15/17, Angelica Garza;,;$11.60;,;white&black   
;,;   09/15/17   ,   Jamie Welch   ;,; $25.27   ;,; 
white&black&red ;,;09/15/17   ,   Rex Hudson   
;,;$8.26;,;   purple;,; 09/15/17 ,   Nadine Gibbs 
;,;   $30.80 ;,;   purple&yellow   ;,; 09/15/17   , 
Hannah Pratt;,;   $22.61   ;,;   purple&yellow   
;,;09/15/17,Gayle Richards;,;$22.19 ;,; 
green&purple&yellow ;,;09/15/17   ,Stanley Holland 
;,; $7.47   ;,; red ;,; 09/15/17 , Anna Dean;,;$5.49 ;,; yellow&red ;,;   09/15/17   ,
Terrance Saunders ;,;   $23.70  ;,;green&yellow&red 
;,; 09/15/17 ,   Brandi Zimmerman ;,; $26.66 ;,; 
red   ;,;09/15/17 ,Guadalupe Freeman ;,; $25.95;,; 
green&red ;,;   09/15/17   ,Irving Patterson 
;,;$19.55 ;,; green&white&red ;,;   09/15/17 ,Karl Ross;,;   $15.68;,;   white ;,;   09/15/17 , Brandy Cortez ;,;$23.57;,;   white&red   ;,;09/15/17, 
Mamie Riley   ;,;$29.32;,; purple;,;09/15/17 ,Mike Thornton   ;,; $26.44 ;,;   purple   ;,; 09/15/17, 
Jamie Vaughn   ;,; $17.24;,;green ;,; 09/15/17   , 
Noah Day ;,;   $8.49   ;,;green   ;,;09/15/17   
,Josephine Keller ;,;$13.10 ;,;green;,;   09/15/17 ,   Tracey Wolfe;,;$20.39 ;,; red   ;,; 09/15/17 ,
Ignacio Parks;,;$14.70   ;,; white&red ;,;09/15/17 
, Beatrice Newman ;,;$22.45   ;,;white&purple&red 
;,;   09/15/17, Andre Norris   ;,;   $28.46   ;,;   
red;,;   09/15/17 ,   Albert Lewis ;,; $23.89;,;   
black&red;,; 09/15/17,   Javier Bailey   ;,;   
$24.49   ;,; black&red ;,; 09/15/17   , Everett Lyons ;,;$1.81;,;   black&red ;,; 09/15/17 ,   
Abraham Maxwell;,; $6.81   ;,;green;,;   09/15/17   
,   Traci Craig ;,;$0.65;,; green&yellow;,; 
09/15/17 , Jeffrey Jenkins   ;,;$26.45;,; 
green&yellow&blue   ;,;   09/15/17,   Merle Wilson 
;,;   $7.69 ;,; purple;,; 09/15/17,Janis Franklin   
;,;$8.74   ;,; purple&black   ;,;09/15/17 ,  
Leonard Guerrero ;,;   $1.86   ;,;yellow  
;,;09/15/17,Lana Sanchez;,;$14.75   ;,; yellow;,;   
09/15/17   ,Donna Ball ;,; $28.10  ;,; 
yellow&blue;,;   09/15/17   , Terrell Barber   ;,; 
$9.91   ;,; green ;,;09/15/17   ,Jody Flores;,; 
$16.34 ;,; green ;,;   09/15/17,   Daryl Herrera 
;,;$27.57;,; white;,;   09/15/17   , Miguel Mcguire;,;$5.25;,; white&blue   ;,;   09/15/17 ,   
Rogelio Gonzalez;,; $9.51;,;   white&black&blue   
;,;   09/15/17   ,   Lora Hammond ;,;$20.56 ;,; 
green;,;   09/15/17,Owen Ward;,; $21.64   ;,;   
green&yellow;,;09/15/17,Malcolm Morales ;,;   
$24.99   ;,;   green&yellow&black;,; 09/15/17 ,   
Eric Mcdaniel ;,;$29.70;,; green ;,; 09/15/17 
,Madeline Estrada;,;   $15.52;,;green;,;   09/15/17 
, Leticia Manning;,;$15.70 ;,; green&purple;,; 
09/15/17 ,   Mario Wallace ;,; $12.36 ;,;green ;,; 
09/15/17,Lewis Glover;,;   $13.66   ;,;   
green&white;,;09/15/17,   Gail Phelps   ;,;$30.52   
;,; green&white&blue   ;,; 09/15/17 , Myrtle Morris 
;,;   $22.66   ;,; green&white&blue;,;09/15/17"""

#------------------------------------------------

# Start coding below!
daily_sales_replaced = daily_sales.replace(";,;", "+")
daily_transactions = daily_sales_replaced.split(",")
#print(daily_transactions)
daily_transactions_split = []
for transaction in daily_transactions:
  daily_transactions_split.append(transaction.split("+"))
#print(daily_transactions_split)

transactions_clean = []
for transac in daily_transactions_split:
  transaction_clean = []
  for tran in transac:
    transaction_clean.append(tran.replace("\n", "").strip(" "))
  transactions_clean.append(transaction_clean)
#print(transactions_clean)
  
customers = []
sales = []
thread_sold = []
for tran_clean in transactions_clean:
  customers.append(tran_clean[0])
  sales.append(tran_clean[1])
  thread_sold.append(tran_clean[2])
#print(customers, sales, thread_sold)
  
total_sales = 0
for sale in sales:
  sale = float(sale.strip("$"))
  total_sales += sale
#print(total_sales)
#print(thread_sold)
thread_sold_split = []
for item in thread_sold:
  #print(item)
  for color in item.split("&"):
    thread_sold_split.append(color)
#print(thread_sold_split)

def color_count(color):
  count = 0
  for items in thread_sold_split:
    if color == items:
      count += 1
  return(count)

print(color_count("white"))
colors =  ['red','yellow','green','white','black','blue','purple']
for color in colors:
  print("{a} threads of {b} were sold today".format(a = color_count(color), b = color))



andere version

#------------------------------------------------
# Start coding below!
daily_sales_replaced = daily_sales.replace(';,;', '|')

daily_transactions = daily_sales_replaced.split(',')

daily_transactions_split = []
for str in daily_transactions:
  daily_transactions_split.append(str.split('|'))

transactions_clean = []
for daily_transactions in daily_transactions_split:
  transaction_clean = []
  for transaction in daily_transactions:
    transaction_clean.append(transaction.strip('\n').strip())
  transactions_clean.append(transaction_clean)
#print(transactions_clean)
    
customers = []
sales = []
thread_sold = []
for trans in transactions_clean:
  customers.append(trans[0])
  sales.append(trans[1])
  thread_sold.append(trans[2])
#print(thread_sold)
  
total_sales = 0
for item in sales:
  total_sales += float(item.strip('$'))
#print(total_sales)

#print(thread_sold)

thread_sold_split = []
for item in thread_sold:
  for color in item.split('&'):
    thread_sold_split.append(color)
#print(thread_sold_split)

def color_count(color):
  color_count = 0
  for item in thread_sold_split:
    if color == item:
      color_count += 1
  return color_count
#print(color_count('white'))

colors = ['red','yellow','green','white','black','blue','purple']

for color in colors:
  print("Thread Shed sold {0} threads of {1} thread today.".format(color_count(color), color))

```
